# Design Decisions

The project design had several main components. I’ll explain the decisions made in each individually.

Platform: This application may seem like it would be more natural for a phone app than a website. However, there are several reasons that we chose to use a website instead. The first is that oftentimes people think of products they want while studying and use it to procrastinate, and people generally work on their laptops. Another reason is that the majority of the difficulty of the code involves using SQL and using python for scraping, which is something we learned to do on a computer rather than on a phone. Finally, the web track taught us skills that were relevant to the project, while the mobile track would have only been tangentially useful for how we wanted to implement the project.

Building the catalogue: We wanted to have a good variety of products that users could buy within the Square. The most clear store for this was to use the catalogue of CVS. Unfortunately, this catalogue is not available as a CSV, so we instead had to develop a scraping algorithm in BeautifulSoup which first scraped the catalogue for a link to each product, then scraped each item link for the product name and price. This provided us with a wealth of products, as well as a way to programmatically update our catalogue for product changes and price changes. Since Harvard students visit other stores than CVS, we included some sample products from other stores, which were added to the SQL database manually since most restaurants don’t have their full catalogue online in a scrapable form. If this were to be truly rolled out, we would expect stores to send in their catalogues as a CSV due to the revenue this would add.

Building the payment system: A fundamental part of the website is a functioning payment system for users. We decided to use a Venmo-esque approach, where users upload money to their accounts, virtually make transactions with the money in their account, and can withdraw from their account. This would minimize costs to the company munus, since almost all payment APIs have transaction fees. The easiest to implement was Stripe. Since payouts are impossible without linking a real bank account to the business, we instead used the Stripe Connect API to build a simulation of what it would really look like.

Users: We limited the user base to the Harvard Yard. In theory, this could later be expanded other college campuses, but the Yard is the ideal location for now due to abundance of busy people and of people looking for quick money, as well as the close living proximity.

Pickups: We implemented pickups using a simple SQL database of open orders and displayed them in a table using HTML. Users who were fulfilling orders can simply click on a pickup button and remove that table from the orders database and add the price * quantity + fee to their balance. This has some issues with people fraudulently redeeming orders that they didn’t deliver, but by the nature of our website we can manually detect such issues through complaints, ban the user, and refund the money to the orderer. Any other system would be impractical for the scope of this project. We also decided to have filters for pickup, since people would often be delivering from a particular store or only to people in a certain area to minimize walking. We implemented this using a filter value in the URL, which was the most convenient way to transmit data from the webpage to our code in python.

Orders: We have far too many items for an average person to scroll through, so we added a search bar for the catalogue using JavaScript and SQL queries. Additionally, we have a dropdown menu for the store in case a user simply wants to peruse the catalogue.
